---
layout: post
title:  "Wrapping up of my undergraduate degree and the way ahead..."
date: 2020-07-21
categories: jekyll
comments: false
---

I came to Pilani in the summers of 2016 (July to be precise). I was excited as well as dejected. I was excited because I was about to start my new journey away from the comforts of my home at one of India's prime institutions. I was dejected because I failed miserably in the joint entrance examination, for which I slogged for two consecutive years. But whatever, this was a monumental change in my life & lifestyle. I still remember holding my tears while my parents were bidding me the final goodbye. 

'Life' started very soon in Pilani. It was confusing to me, right from the online time table system to picking courses. I  thank my 1st room-mate for guiding me through the process, and I was finally able to crack the methodology of doing such stuff. Time Table & registration was never a problem since then.

1st year, 2nd year, 3rd year, and finally, the 4th one went by without me noticing. But these years gave me so many beautiful memories, great friends, and a special 'friend' whom I, unfortunately, lost due to my actions. The end of my journey was obviously horrible courtesy COVID-19. Nevertheless, even a book of 1000 pages would not be enough to describe my journey completely, and a book of infinite pages won't be enough to describe the contributions that many great people had in my life. Hence, I would keep it short and mention just the critical outcomes.

From my first year itself, what I was not afraid of was trying things out. I tried almost everything, from graphic designing to frontend development to android programming to what not. I did lose grades in the process, but do I have any regrets? No. But what I was afraid of or cared about was the 'public opinion' about me. I used to lie to maintain my public 'image', I used to do all sorts of stuff to get public praise but with time and some open *grilling* sessions by some caring friends, that vice was successfully eliminated. The process was not very smooth I can tell you that. I don't know why but like typical Indian aunties I was way too much interested in what people thought about me. This is seriously the most stupid thing one can do, simply because you have zero control over this but I did waste a lot of my time but after being shown the mirror by several people, I learnt, maybe not in the most elegant of ways but surely I did. The amount of care I have about other's opinion about myself nearly tends to zero now. I consider this as one big achievement. Anyways, there are several other stuff which I learnt, I learnt the reality of life; "Whatever you do, there is someone else in the world who does it better than you!", yeah, I met so many smart people during these 4 years, this taught me to always be humble. Overall I would describe my 4 years as fulfilling. I may not be at the top of my class, I may not be the most successful person, I may not be the most 'cool' person but I know these 4 years have changed me in ways that I would never have imagined. Right from the 1st semsester to the 2nd last one, the journey was difficult but exciting. My 7th semester abroad in Germany was specially awesome as it helped me be certain about my career choices and also I got to meet some really amazing people. That was really a worthwhile stay.

The struggles of compre exams, the late night Counter Strike sessions, the late night *gyaan* sessions, I would miss everything. Being far from the hustle & bustle of the city definitely gives a new life to Pilani. The end to this story is really unfortunate though, COVID eating up everything (including me ;) ). Anyways, BITS Pilani really made a man out of a stupid boy. It definitely did. I would conclude by summarizing my learnings; never be afraid to try things out, every experience counts. Never over analyze your life. It's okay to fail. Stay true to your identity, don't change yourself for more acceptability amongst the masses. Speak out when needed ;), have faith in your capabilities. Goodluck guys :)

Always remember this from the Rigveda:

`When there is harmony between the mind, heart and resolution then nothing is impossible`

Oh and I forgot to mention the way ahead, well that's a surprise for me as well, all thanks to the great COVID ;)





