---
layout: post
title:  "My experience being a teaching assitant in a course of 140 students..."
date: 2020-07-21
categories: jekyll
comments: false
---


This is a small memoir about my experience as a teaching assistant for over 140 students in the Neural Networks course at BITS Pilani.
2nd semester of 2019-2020 started with a sense of relaxation since it was the last semester of my undergraduate studies. I had just come back from Germany after an exciting seven months. The experience was excellent and helped me be sure about a research career. But I was not sure where should I take this journey forward to? Maybe a master's or perhaps a doctorate (which I preferred more)? I wasn't sure which path would be the best, academic life or industrial life? I had so many questions still unanswered.

In the industry, it's usually your experience than degrees that counts a lot. Getting a master's in 2 years and work experience of 4 years would probably land me at a better place in the industry than six years of a Ph.D. In academia, the more degrees you have, the better it gets, but you need to teach students. I never had that experience, and Neural Networks was my first time getting involved in the teaching process. Hence I was excited and also expecting answers to all my doubts.

Jumping directly to the time of the first assignment that I created. It was an ipython notebook for students to solve. It had problems related to PCA & SVD. The creation process was a massive pain for me, the autograder failed almost every time since I missed one or more corner cases. Finally, with some help, I got it running. The real nightmare came when students were solving it; there were numerous errors, typos which made things difficult for them. I had to monitor my mail continuously just to keep track of all doubts that people may have. That week was tiring, but this was just the beginning. After the submission, I found that there was an error in the data file I generated, the error was so huge that I had to literally manually check every notebook since autograder crashed completely. The data I generated had linearly dependent columns, which is a nightmare for PCA. Anyhow I completed my work, and evaluation was complete.

It was March 14 when I discussed with the other TA about 2nd assignment when a notice came to vacate dorms since COVID-19 had started to blow up. It was a sad time; we all went home. The 2nd assignment was prepared remotely by the other TA with some help from my side. All of this gave me a glimpse that academic life is not that easy, but the queries from various students also helped me realize that I still have a lot to study. I want to study and be able to answer all questions; I like to dig my mind deep into mathematical equations and problems. I want to innovate; I want to create something of my own. I want a doctorate, for sure!
So the overall outcome except the TAship stipend was a guarantee that a doctorate is a must and maybe it's the academia where I am best suited :) and btw the assignmets and scripts from the course can be found [here](https://github.com/rish-av/NNFL-2020).
